   Our research is directed towards the study of selective neuronal
   vulnerability in dementing illnesses using classical neuropathological
   as well as modern quantitative immunohistochemical methods. We intend
   to develop a quantitative, detailed and cohesive definition of neuronal
   susceptibility to degeneration in the cerebral cortex, by extending
   data on Alzheimer disease to other dementing disorders as well as
   animal models of age-related illnesses, and by defining the key
   neurochemical and morphological characteristics linked to relative
   vulnerability (or resistance to degeneration) of identified neuronal
   populations. The regional and laminar distribution in the cerebral
   cortex of specific neuronal populations is investigated in a variety of
   neurodegenerative disorders, and quantitatively compared to Alzheimer
   disease and control brains. In addition, a detailed study of brains
   from aged patients with no records of neurological and psychiatric
   disorders is performed in order to define further the limits of normal
   aging in the brain.

   We employ advanced microscopy, high field magnetic resonance imaging,
   stereologic, and modeling approaches to develop an accurate
   quantitative assessment of such pathological changes in a region- and
   layer-specific manner. Neuronal morphology is analyzed in a
   quantitative manner using intracellular injection of hippocampal and
   neocortical neurons coupled with computerized reconstruction to assess
   the degree to which the accumulation of pathologic markers causes
   dendritic atrophy and spine loss in different subtypes of neocortical
   pyramidal cells subserving cortical circuits critical for memory and
   cognition. The characterization of such vulnerable neurons and circuits
   is fundamental to the design of therapeutic strategies aiming at their
   protection or rescue. Similar approaches are applied to the
   neuropathology of schizophrenia and autism.

   Finally we are investigating mammalian brain evolution with a focus on
   cetaceans and great apes. These studies have led us to identify
   specific neuronal types in parts of the cerebral cortex known to be
   involved in social awareness, judgment, and attention that can be
   considered as markers of adaptive mechanisms and functions in response
   to particular ecological pressure.

   Computational Neurobiology and Imaging Center
   AutismBrainNet

   Lab Address:
   Mount Sinai School of Medicine
   Hess Center for Science & Medicine
   1470 Madison Avenue
   New York, NY 10029
   Admin Phone: (212) 824 - 9326
   Admin Fax: (646) 537 - 9585
http://research.mssm.edu/cnic/
http://www.autismbrainnet.com/
