   We explore information processing in the nervous system, and use the
   visual system as a convenient model. We employ systems analysis,
   borrowed from communication engineering, as the conceptual and
   methodological framework. We use single and multi-neuron recordings and
   optical imaging of neuronal activity, and have developed sophisticated
   techniques for stimulation of the visual system, and for the analysis
   of neuronal responses to these stimuli. We also record simultaneously
   the input and output of neurons in the visual thalamic nucleus, the
   lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), in order to learn how information
   transmission from the retina to the visual cortex through the LGN is
   controlled. Applied mathematics and computers are used extensively for
   stimulation, analysis and modeling of the systems under study.

    Currently we are investigating the properties of visual neurons in the
   retina, LGN and visual cortex of monkeys and cats, with an emphasis on
   the temporal, spatial and chromatic selectivities of these cells, and
   on the nature, source and function of the variability (noise) of
   neuronal responses. Since perception and behavior involve the
   coordinated activity of many interacting neurons, we also use optical
   imaging to visualize the spatio-temporal distribution of activity in
   neuronal ensembles in the visual cortex. In addition, we are recording
   from groups of neurons in the LGN and visual cortex, and study their
   dynamical interractions and the information that these neuronal
   ensembles carry. The experimental approaches are augmented by
   computational modeling of LGN neurons and cortical circuits. The topics
   we are focused on currently include: the representation of color in the
   primate visual cortex, the transmission of information from retina to
   cortex via the LGN, and the role of the descending pathways in the
   brain.

    Recently we have started to record from populations of neurons in the
   brains of mice, from regions involved in depression, drug addiction and
   Post-Traumatic-Stress-Disorder (PTSD). The recorded regions incluide
   the Nucleus Accumbens and the Ventral Tegmental Area (VTA). We subject
   the recordings to various mathematical methods that quantify the
   population behavior, in order to determine whether pathological
   behavior is reflected in the network behavior.

   Our research is supported by grants from the NIH's Eye Institute,
   Institute for General Medical Sciences, and the Institute for
   Mathematical & Biological Synthesis.
