   What causes aging and age-related diseases, especially obesity,
   diabetes, and Alzheimer's disease?

   The metabolic mystery: obesity and diabetes (a surfeit of nutritional
   resources) accelerate many age-related diseases, and dietary
   restriction (a dearthof nutritional resources) slows down aging itself
   and almost all age-related diseases. What's up with that?

   Can we develop a drug to mimic all the protective effects of dietary
   restriction? (Yes!)

   Our laboratory uses histological, behavioral, electrophysiological, and
   molecular, methods (including DNA microarrays and RNA interference) to
   assess the basic mechanisms by which hypothalamic neurons sense and
   regulate metabolic state (including body weight and food intake), and
   how these mechanisms are impaired in metabolic diseases and during
   aging. A driving question of our laboratory is what may be called the
   metabolic mystery. This refers to the fascinating phenomenon that
   obesity is a risk factor for most age-related diseases and indeed for
   mortality, and conversely dietary restriction appears to slow down the
   aging process and extend maximum lifespan. Considering that almost all
   major pathologies are influenced by caloric intake, the mechanisms
   underlying the metabolic mystery may be considered among the most
   compelling in biomedical science. We really don't understand why
   caloric intake should lead to diseases, but many lines of evidence
   suggest neuroendocrine mechanisms. We have begun to study the nature of
   the hypothalamic neurons which are sensitive to nutrition and which in
   turn regulate metabolic state, and we have thus begun to define a
   "nutritional field" of neurons which contain overlapping domains
   sensitive to different nutrients and which regulate different aspects
   of metabolism. Of particular interest is that the maximum overlap of
   these nutritional stimulation (e.g., glucose and leptin) may occur
   within the POMC neurons, which we now believe play a critical role in
   regulating metabolism. This is particularly interesting because the
   POMC neurons are among the most sensitive to decline during aging. To
   begin to directly test the role of specific gene products in the
   development of obesity, diabetes, and aging, we have now produced
   several lines of transgenic mice that overexpress leptin, POMC,
   insulin, and glucokinase specifically in the brain, and we are now
   assessing the effects of these transgenes in obesity, diabetes, and
   aging. For example, we have now shown that transgenic enhancement of
   neuronal POMC will completely correct the diabetes and other
   impairments in genetically obese mice. These studies have led to
   discovery of a new class of anti-obesity drugs that we are now
   studying. A new direction in our laboratory involves examining function
   of metabolic genes we have discovered using microarrays using RNA
   interference protocols in mice and in C. elegans. Using high-throughput
   RNAi screening methods we have discovered over 20 novel genes that
   regulate obesity in C. elegans. Using a similar approach we have also
   discovered a transcriptional complex that mediates the protective
   effects of dietary restriction to increase lifespan and protect against
   age-related diseases, including Alzheimer-type pathology and diabetic
   complications. Pharmacological activation of this pathway increases
   lifespan and protects against neurodegenerative diseases, and the same
   complex predicts lifespan and obesity in mice. We have now also
   developed novel high-throughput methods to discover novel anti-obesity
   and anti-diabetes drugs, and have discovered over 20 drugs in each
   class so far.

   What is the hypothesis?

   A key observation about the nature of age-related impairments is that
   these impairments accrue over time, reflecting a cumulative and
   apparently irreversible process. We have now discovered the molecular
   mechanism of this "molecular memory" effect and shown that it applies
   to all age-related diseases that are influenced by dietary restriction.
   In particular this process explains the cumulative development of
   diabetic complications, and implies that both age-related impairments
   and diabetic complications can not only be slowed (as with dietary
   restriction) but can actually be reveresed, by blocking glucose
   metabolism more effectively than can be done with dietary restriction.
   Further reading.

   What are the projects?

   Determine molecular mechanisms mediating the following observations:

   AGING

   OBESITY

   DIABETES

   ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE

   Ko F, Isoda F, Mobbs C. Laparotomy in Mice Induces Blood Cell
   Expression of Inflammatory and Stress Genes. Journal of interferon &
   cytokine research : the official journal of the International Society
   for Interferon and Cytokine Research. 2014.

   Dr. Mobbs

   More publications ->

   Meet the team ->

   Mobbs Laboratory
   Lab Location: ICAHN 9-26
   Office Location: ICAHN 9-20F

   Office: (212) 659 - 5904
   Lab: (212) 659 - 5946

   Mount Sinai School of Medicine
   One Gustave L. Levy Place
   Box 1065
   New York, NY 10029

   Courier Address:
   Mount Sinai School of Medicine
   New York, NY 10029

   Lab Address:
   Mount Sinai School of Medicine
   1425 Madison Avenue, ICAHN 9-26
   New York, NY 10029

   Admin Phone: (212) 659 - 5993
   Admin Fax: (212) 849 - 2611
file:///var/folders/07/q1dxpd8s56s0tfqh7n6xv3rm0000gn/T/Assets/MobbsLacOperon.pdf
file:///var/folders/07/q1dxpd8s56s0tfqh7n6xv3rm0000gn/T/mobbs_publications.html
file:///var/folders/07/q1dxpd8s56s0tfqh7n6xv3rm0000gn/T/mobbs_team.html
