   We work on synaptic plasticity, the aging brain, and the synaptic basis
   of age-related cognitive decline. We are particularly interested in the
   distinction between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the more modest
   disruption of memory often referred to as age-associated cognitive
   impairment or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) that often occurs in the
   context of normal aging. While age-associated cognitive impairment
   represents a major health problem on its own that must be solved,
   preventing the transition from MCI to AD is a related goal of enormous
   importance given the rising threat and cost of AD to western society.
   In order to achieve either goal, we need to understand the cellular,
   synaptic, and molecular basis of the earliest age-related alterations
   that lead to cognitive decline and how these events relate to the
   complex physiology of aging, such as the aging of endocrine systems
   that affect the brain, or the interactions between stress and aging.
   For example, in AD, the cortical neurons that provide the complex
   connections that mediate cognition degenerate, leading to the
   catastrophic loss of cognitive function evident in dementia. Unlike AD,
   significant neuron death does not occur in normal aging and thus does
   not appear to be the cause of the initial stages of age-associated
   cognitive impairment. While these circuits do not die in normal aging,
   we have shown that they are vulnerable to sub-lethal age-related
   alterations in structure, synaptic integrity, and molecular processing
   at the synapse, all of which impair cognitive function in
   well-characterized animal models. In addition, while synapse loss
   occurs in aging, all synapses are not equally vulnerable and all
   regions do not age the same way. Our recent data on prefrontal cortex
   show that there is a selective loss of the class of synapses that is
   most plastic and likely to play a critical role in the cognitive
   processes mediated by prefrontal cortex, yet the age-related synaptic
   alterations in hippocampus are quite different, with minimal synapse
   loss. Biochemical alterations of the synapse, such as shifts in
   distribution or abundance of key neurotransmitter receptors, may also
   contribute to memory impairment, particularly in hippocampus.

   We have shown that the same brain regions and circuits vulnerable to
   aging are responsive to circulating estrogen levels, suggesting that
   critical interactions between reproductive senescence and brain aging
   may affect excitatory synaptic transmission and cognitive performance.
   In fact, estrogen treatment in aged female monkeys protected the
   vulnerable class of synapses and restored cognitive performance to that
   of young monkeys. Importantly, the effects of estrogen on these neurons
   show that certain age-associated synaptic alterations may be
   reversible, leading to the protection of cognitive performance observed
   in these monkeys. These effects of estrogen give us a molecular and
   therapeutic entry point to explore additional interventions and
   strategies to protect against synaptic aging. If we can prevent the
   synaptic aging of these circuits while still largely intact, we may be
   able to protect individuals against the earliest stages of cognitive
   decline and in turn, prevent the transition to the death of these
   circuits that underlies AD.

   A parallel area of research in our lab investigates the effects of
   behavioral stress on neurons in the prefrontal cortex. We have shown
   that stress leads to dendritic retraction on pyramidal neurons in
   prefrontal cortex, and this leads to cognitive decline. Importantly, if
   stress is discontinued these neurons recover, both structurally and
   functionally. In addition, the specific neuronal responses to stress
   differ between males and females. All of these studies were done in
   young animals, but recently, we were able to link our investigations
   into neuronal aging with our interest in behaviorally (i.e., stress)-
   induced plasticity. While the dendrites of prefrontal neurons in young
   animals recover from stress-induced retraction, this capacity for
   recovery is absent in middle-aged and aged animals. Furthermore,
   prefrontal neurons in middle-aged and aged rats lose spines with aging
   in the absence of stress and are further stress-induced synaptic loss
   or plasticity.  We are now pursuing the mechanisms responsible for
   age-related loss of experience dependent plasticity.
