    Department of Genetics and Genomics Science
   Icahn Institute of Genomics and Multiscale Biology
   Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai

   Dr. Zhang's Multiscale Network Modeling Laboratory (MNML) is focused on
   construction and characterization of multiscale biological networks
   from large-scale genomic, genetic, epigenetic, proteomic and clinical
   data. The fundamental goal of MNML's research is to not only identify
   novel pathways and driver genes for complex human diseases but also
   build up biologically plausible mechanistic models of diseases for
   subsequent experimental and clinical validations. MNML has developed
   and significantly contributed a series of influential gene network
   inference algorithms that have been extensively used for identification
   of novel pathways and gene targets, as well as development of drugs for
   complex human diseases such as cancer, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's,
   obesity and diabetes. MNML's latest research that uncovered dramatic
   changes in gene-gene interaction patterns in Alzheimer's disease and
   pinpointed an immune/microglia gene network as the top pathway causally
   linked to the disease was just published in Cell. Dr. Zhang's recent
   research that sheds a new light on targeted therapies against breast
   cancer was featured in a press release by the AACR Basic Cancer
   Research conference in 2011. Dr. Zhang's work on predicting genetic
   interactions was identified by Nature Biotechnology as one of the
   breakthroughs in the field of computational biology in 2010. The
   discovery of a gene cluster that is causally linked to obesity and
   diabetes was highlighted in Nature in 2008.

                            Influenza Life Cycle

    Multiscale Gene Networks of Alzheimer's Disease (Zhang B et al., Cell
                                   153(3))
http://icahn.mssm.edu/departments-and-institutes/genetics-and-genomic-sciences
http://icahn.mssm.edu/departments-and-institutes/genetics-and-genomic-sciences
http://icahn.mssm.edu/
http://www.cell.com/abstract/S0092-8674(13)00387-5
