   Our lab is interested in understanding how neurotrophic growth factors,
   including nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic
   factor (BDNF), regulate nervous system development and function. We
   study neurotrophin action through the identification of gene products
   that these growth factors regulate in the CNS and PNS, determining how
   these proteins are involved in neurogenesis, axonal outgrowth and
   pathfinding, synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity, using cellular
   and molecular tools, and knockout mouse models. Together with the
   Benson lab, we're currently examining how the NGF-regulated cell
   surface adhesion protein, called NILEGP or L1, an immunoglobulin (Ig)
   superfamily member that is expressed primarily in the nervous system,
   regulates axonal outgrowth, branching, pathfinding, and fasciculation,
   as well as neuronal migration. Of note, inherited X-linked mutations in
   L1 result in hydrocephalus and mental retardation (CRASH and MASA
   syndromes). In addition, we're trying to understand how the
   neurotrophin-inducible gene Vgf, encoding a secreted `granin-like'
   protein and peptide precursor, controls energy expenditure, memory, and
   depressive behavior. Recent collaborative studies with the Huntley,
   Alberini, Shapiro, and Duman laboratories indicate that VGF-derived
   peptides injected into the brain have anti-depressant efficacy,
   consistent with abnormalities noted in memory tasks and depressed
   behavior in VGF knockout mice, and that VGF regulates hippocampal
   synaptic activity via a BDNF-dependent mechanism. We are developing
   novel conditional and humanized knockout models to better understand
   VGF function in the developing and adult hippocampus, hypothalamus, and
   sympathetic nervous system.

   Fargali, S., Garcia, A., Sadahiro, M., Jiang, C., Janssen, W.G., Lin,
   W.J., Cogliani, V., Elste, A., Mortillo, S., Cero, C., Veitenheimer,
   B., Graiani, G., Pasinetti, G.M., Mahata, S.K., Osborn, J.W., Huntley,
   G.W., Phillips, G.R., Benson, D.L., Bartolomucci, A., Salton,
   S.R.(2014). The granin VGF promotes genesis of secretory vesicles, and
   regulates circulating catecholamine levels and blood pressure. FASEB J
   28(5):2120-2133.
