   In the human brain, there are approximately 100 billion neurons that
   make an even larger number of synaptic connections. Collectively, these
   intricate connections create the neural circuits that form the basis of
   complex behaviors, underlying our emotions, our actions, our thinking.
   A major focus of neuroscience research is to understand the function of
   these neural circuits in both normal and diseased states. Neurons
   communicate with each other using a combination of tiny electrical and
   chemical signals. Our laboratory studies the function of small
   proteins, known as 'ion channels', that are essential for controlling
   these electrical signals in the brain. A large number of human diseases
   have been linked to mutations in ion channels, so called
   channelopathies. Our research focuses on the function of potassium ion
   channels, which control the flow of potassium ions across the cell
   membrane and generate one of the most important inhibitory signals in
   the brain.

   The appropriate balance and timing of excitatory and inhibitory signals
   are critical for the normal function of neural circuits in the brain.
   Research in the Slesinger laboratory focuses on a fundamental pathway
   for inhibition in the brain that is mediated by G protein-coupled
   receptors (GPCR) and G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium
   channels (referred to as 'GIRK' channels). Many neurotransmitters in
   the brain activate GPCRs which in turn opens GIRK channels. Previous
   work in the lab has established that GIRK channels exist in a
   macromolecular signaling complex that incorporates the channel, G
   proteins, receptors and regulator proteins into a microdomain. We
   identifed the first regulator of GIRK channel trafficking, SNX27, and
   demonstrated that alcohol interacts directly with a physical pocket in
   GIRK channels. The long-term goal of our research is to elucidate the
   function of GIRK channels in the brain, with a particular emphasis on
   their role in drug addiction and therapeutic potential. Currently,
   there are several different projects in the laboratory that range from
   molecular studies of GIRK channel function to identifying key pathways
   and proteins altered in human's addicted to psychostimulants.
