   RESEARCH

   We use a multidisciplinary approach that combines behavioral,
   morphological, electrophysiological, cell biological and
   molecular-biological techniques to explain the neural basis of those
   forms of behavioral plasticity that are due to changes in the internal
   state of the organism. Our primary interest is in mechanisms that
   establish internal states and in memory mechanisms that are responsible
   for persistence of these states.

   We have chosen to study internal states in a preparation that has a
   relatively simple nervous system - the marine mollusc Aplysia
   californica. The central nervous system of this animal is distributed
   into several ganglia, each of which consists of a limited number of
   neurons, many of which are large and easily identifiable as unique
   individuals.

   The ability to recognize the same neurons from animal to animal has
   greatly facilitated the functional characterization of individual cells
   as sensory neurons, motor neurons and interneurons. This in turn has
   allowed the reconstruction of neuronal circuits that mediate a variety
   of behaviors. Circuit-level analysis has provided new insights into the
   organization of neuronal networks into mediating and modulatory systems
   and led to a new conceptualization of command neurons.

   Studies of transmitters and modulators involved in the regulation of
   behavior have resulted in purification and sequencing of several novel
   neuropeptides and to molecular cloning of the mRNA of these molecules.
   These neuropeptides have now been localized to specific neurons, and
   shown to act as cotransmitters. To a large extent our research is now
   focused on the role that these peptidergic cotransmitters play in
   optimizing the efficiency of behavior in response to changes in the
   motivational state of the animal. We are particularly interested in
   determining:

   We expect that this approach will yield a unified picture in which our
   understanding of behavioral plasticity will extend all the way from
   behavior to the molecules involved.
