   Professor of Biology; Director, Masters Program

   Ph.D. 1983 (genetics), B.A. 1977 (biology/chemistry), Connecticut.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8270

   (212) 995-4015

   Molecular mechanisms underlying early development in Drosophila

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   Transcriptional activation of the early Drosophila genome

   Untitled1.png The broad goal of my research program is to understand
   the molecular mechanisms that control early embryonic development. We
   use genetic, biochemical, and genomic approaches to study gene
   regulatory networks in the early Drosophila embryo. Initially the
   embryo relies on maternally deposited gene products to begin
   developing, and the transition to reliance on its own zygotic-gene
   activity is called the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT). The MZT
   represents a major cellular reprogramming event whereby thousands of
   maternal RNAs are degraded and hundreds of new zygotic RNAs are
   transcribed during the time between egg fertilization and blastoderm
   formation. Recently we discovered a key transcriptional regulator
   called Zelda, which plays a key role in this reprogramming event. Our
   goal is to understand how Zelda mediates the rapid and robust
   activation of the zygotic genome and how it works together with the
   other key transcription factors to prepare the embryo for major
   developmental processes such as gastrulation and tissue
   differentiation.

   Currently, the major project in the lab aims to understand how Zelda
   functions at the mechanistic level. Zelda is a zinc-finger
   transcription factor, and binds to CAGGTAG and related sites (Liang et
   al., 2008). Interestingly, our genome-wide binding analysis
   (ChIP-chip/seq) showed that Zelda binds to known enhancers in the early
   embryo to such an extent that Zelda binding is a predictive indicator
   of the location of an enhancer (Nien et al., 2012). Zelda is the major
   hub in the early gene network (Liang et al., 2008; Nien et al., 2011).
   Zelda binds enhancers well before the gene is activated (Harrision et
   al., 2012; Nien et al., 2010), suggesting that Zelda might act as a
   pioneer factor, a special class of transcription factors that bind
   target sites in chromatin, allowing other factors access to enhancers
   (reviewed in Zaret and Carroll, 2011). In this way, Zelda may
   potentiate the activity of other transcription factors such as the
   patterning morphogens, an exciting hypothesis that points to the
   significance of Zelda function in embryonic patterning. We believe that
   Zelda works together with morphogens, and though we do not yet know how
   they interact, one fact is clear - that without Zelda, morphogens
   cannot function to their full potential, particularly when at low
   concentrations, and target genes are not activated at the right time
   and in the right place. Mechanistically, Zelda may act as a beacon on
   chromatin for other transcription factors. Without Zelda, these factors
   may not position correctly, and redistribute to other regions of the
   genome. In collaboration with the Zeitlinger lab at Stowers Institute,
   we are examining the chromatin landscape in wild type and zelda mutant
   embryos to determine how Zelda cooperates with other key regulators
   during the MZT.

   A second Zelda project stems from the observation that Zelda is
   expressed in older embryos and larva, specifically in imaginal discs
   and the brain. For example in the eye disc and optic lobe of the brain,
   Zelda is expressed in the undifferentiated cells and is down-regulated
   upon differentiation. In the opitc lobe neuroepithelium, which
   comprises stem cells that give rise to neuroblasts/neurons, loss of
   Zelda causes premature differentiation. We propose that Zelda
   establishes the neural stem cell gene network, which prepares cells for
   the neuropeithelial to neuroblast transition.

   The projects in the my lab require the use of several types of
   approaches from manipulating genes and transgenes and observing the
   output phenotypes, to systems/genome-wide studies that require
   bioinformatic analysis. We also collaborate with systems biologist Stas
   Shvartsman, who models Zelda interactions with the patterning
   morphogens. Together these approaches will allow an understanding of
   how global factors like Zelda interact with key regulators to control
   robust expression of the early zygotic genome.

   I teach the undergraduate Genetics course. I participate in team-taught
   graduate lecture courses: Biocore I and II (the graduate core classes),
   and Developmental Genetics. I also run a graduate seminar, Current
   Topics in Genetics. In addition, I mentor several undergraduate
   students for their independent studies in the lab and their honors
   theses, as well as several Master's students for their Lab in Molecular
   Biology courses and Master's theses.

   I received my Ph.D. from the University of Connecticut in 1983. My
   thesis mentor was Dr. Arthur Chovnick, a well known geneticist who
   studied gene organization in Drosophila. I moved to the laboratory of
   Dr. David Ish-Horowicz at the Imperial Cancer Research Fund in London,
   England to study developmental biology. I was particularly interested
   in the problem of cell fate determination. In 1986, I moved to Dr.
   Michael Levine's laboratory at Columbia University to study the problem
   of how morphogen gradients control cell fate. We discovered that the
   dorsal morphogen gradient is created by the mechanism of regulated
   nuclear transport.

   In 1991 I started my own lab at the Roche Institute of Molecular
   Biology in New Jersey where I showed how the dorsal morphogen acts as a
   transcriptional repressor to control target gene expression. In 1995 I
   joined the faculty of New York University as an associate professor and
   was tenured in 1999. We have been studying how Dpp functions as a
   morphogen and how it differs from the classical morphogens Dorsal and
   Bicoid. We showed that feed forward motifs predominate in how Dpp
   regulates downstream target genes rather than the differential binding
   affinity mechanism.

   Genetics Society of America, American Association for the Advancement
   of Science.

   Whitehead Fellowship for Junior Faculty in Biological Sciences, 1996;
   American Cancer Society Research Grant NP600, July 1987-1991; American
   Cancer Society Postdoctoral Fellowship, November 1983-November 1985;
   PHS Genetics Training Grant, September 1978-September 1981.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Rushlow+C%5BAuthor%5D
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=D6fk8zcAAAAJ&hl=en
