   Professor of Biology, Mathematics, Neural Science

   Ph.D. 1981 (neurobiology), Rockefeller; B.A. 1975 (neurobiology), SUNY
   (Binghamton).

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-3109

   (212) 995-4015

   Computational Neuroscience, Phototransduction, Stochastic Problems in
   Cellular and Molecular Biology, Statistical Analysis and Modeling of
   Genome-Scale Data

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   My research in computational biology and neuroscience integrates data
   from experimental studies, theoretical analysis, mathematical modeling,
   and computer simulation.

   One of my ongoing projects, in vertebrate phototransduction, focuses on
   light adaptation in rods and cones, and on the reproducibility of rod
   responses to single photons.  Electrophysiological and biochemical data
   provide a basis for developing mathematical models that account for
   light adaptation and statistical properties of the singe-photon
   response in terms of the molecular mechanisms underlying
   phototransduction.

   Another ongoing project involves the development of "statistical
   mechanical" methods for modeling large neural networks.  These methods
   employ the theory of the probability (population) density function.
   Factors that make conventional methods unwieldy or intractable -
   thousands of neurons and millions of synapses ¬are used to great
   advantage in these methods. Similar neurons are lumped together into
   populations, and one tracks the distribution of neurons over state
   space in each population.  The state of a neuron is determined by the
   dynamic variables in the underlying single-neuron model.  The
   population-firing rate is given by the flux of probability across a
   particular surface in state space. Neurons are coupled via stochastic
   synapses; the rate of excitatory/inhibitory input events for a target
   neuron is determined by the rate of action potentials in each of the
   presynaptic populations and by the average number of synapses the
   postsynaptic neuron receives from each of these populations.

   In an ongoing collaboration with Arjun Raj at the University of
   Pennsylvania, I am analyzing and modeling stochastic gene expression.
   The models include gene switching, synthesis and degradation of mRNA
   and proteins, and cell divisions. A goal is to understand sources of
   large fluctuations in the number of transcripts from genes that are
   expressed at low levels, the consequences for protein levels, and the
   implications for cell fate and cell physiology in general. Future
   modeling will focus on gene networks.

   Finally, I am collaborating with Professor Gloria Coruzzi and her lab
   on projects involving the identification and modeling of gene
   regulatory networks underlying nitrogen assimilation and metabolism in
   Arabidopsis. Statistical analysis of microarray, RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq
   data plays a central role in these projects.

   I teach both in the Department of Biology and the Department of
   Mathematics.

   Graduate Biology courses include:

   Graduate Mathematics courses include:

   I received my Ph.D. in 1981 from the Rockefeller University, where I
   studied physical chemistry, membrane biophysics, neurophysiology, and
   mathematics. My dissertation was an analysis of information processing
   in the outer retina of the turtle. My postdoctoral research was a
   combined experimental and theoretical study of light adaptation -- a
   process by which the retina adjusts its sensitivity according to
   lighting conditions. In 1984, I joined the faculty of New York
   University with a joint appointment in the Courant Institute of
   Mathematical Sciences and the Department of Biology.

   Whitehead Fellowship, New York University, 1986.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?cmd=Search&term=Tranchina+D%5BAuthor%5D
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=EcMD4XQAAAAJ&hl=en
