   Collegiate Professor; Professor of Biology; Dean of Science, NYU Abu
   Dhabi

   Ph.D. 1986, Penn State; B.A. 1981, Susquehanna.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8229

   (212) 995-4015

   The interaction of mammalian RNA polymerases with damaged sites in
   expressed genes

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   The research in my laboratory primarily involves the study of
   interactions of chemical and physical agents with DNA, and the
   processing of the resulting damage by cells. To that end, we have been
   examining the removal of chemical adducts from discrete regions of the
   genome. This is being done in an effort to characterize a phenomenon
   known as DNA repair heterogeneity that is typified by the preferential
   removal of DNA damage from active genetic loci. The implications of
   biases in DNA repair are vast: Certain segments of the chromosome might
   be more susceptible to mutagenesis than other domains, making them hot
   spots for the induction of a variety of detrimental biological outcomes
   including tumorigenesis and cell death.

   A second area of ongoing research involves investigating the effect of
   site-specific DNA damage on transcription by a variety of RNA
   polymerases. We use oligonucleotides containing polycyclic aromatic
   hydrocarbons, an important class of chemical carcinogens, for these
   studies. We have shown that some of these adducts impede transcription
   elongation; furthermore, the degree of inhibition is dependent upon the
   stereochemical configuration of the DNA lesion.

   Molecular and Cell Biology I and II, and part of Principles of Biology
   I.

   Doctoral Mentor: Anthony E. Pegg; Department of Physiology; The Milton
   S. Hershey Medical Center; The Pennsylvania State University

   Postdoctoral Mentor: Philip C. Hanawalt; Department of Biological
   Sciences; Stanford University

   Professional Experience: Research Scientist; American Health Foundation

   American Association for the Advancement of Science, American
   Association for Cancer Research.

   New York University Whitehead Fellowship for Junior Faculty, 1994; New
   York University Golden Dozen Award for Outstanding Accomplishments in
   Teaching, 1994.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Scicchitano+D%5BAuthor%5D+NOT+1965%5BAll+Fields%5D
