   Professor of Biology, Neural Science

   Ph.D. 1973 (Neuroscience), Rockefeller; M.A. 1973 (Anatomy), Cambridge;
   B.A. 1968 (Biology), Washington.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8235

   (212) 995-4015

   Neuroplasticity of the brain regulated by neuronal serotonin and glial
   S-100 protein

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   The morphology of brain cells in the adult brain is in constant flux
   due to reorganization of the cytoskeleton. In experimental animals, the
   mature phenotype of neurons can be lost in the adult brain when trophic
   factors are withdrawn, and reestablished upon replacement. We have been
   studying reversible brain changes for over 20 years and recently
   proposed a model based on neuronal instability to explain these
   changes. The shape of a cell, whether neuronal or glial, is dependent
   on the integrity of the cytoskeleton composed mainly of microtubules
   and microtubule associated proteins (MAPs). MAPs function to sta-bilize
   the tubulin polymers. When the MAPs are phosphorylated, they can no
   longer attach to the polymers, and the long strands of tubulin
   depolymerize. This results in a collapse of the cellular morphology,
   e.g. dendritic and process retraction. S100b is a soluble glial protein
   concentrated in neurons, which protects MAPs from phos-phorylation. We
   have shown that the addition of S100b stabilizes and promotes the
   extension of dendritic processes.Serotonin, acting on the 5-HT1A high
   affinity receptor, can stimulate the release of S100b from astrocytes.
   recpt_small.jpg Glucocorticoids, secreted during stress, can enhance
   serotonin turnover and adrenalectomy has the opposite effect of
   reducing serotonin activity. Both adrenalectomy (removing source of
   glucocorticoids) or depletion of serotonin (by injecting the
   substituted amphetamines or specific synthesis inhibitors) have been
   found to reduce dendritic staining and synapse number in hippocampus
   and cortex. This reduction of mature neuronal morphology is rapidly
   reversible upon replacement of steroids or serotonin. Others have found
   similar examples of retraction and expansion manipulating estrogen,
   dopamine, norepinephrine and NGF. We propose a model of neuronal
   instability to explain these reversible changes in neuronal shape and
   connections. Our results obtained in experimental animals may have
   applicability to brain volumetric and neurophilic changes seen in
   alcoholism, anorexia nervosa, Alzheimer's and depression. As is evident
   in the hibernating ground squirrel or cycling female rat, loss of
   dendrites may represent a normal response of a cell to a changing
   trophic environment, which could represent healthy plasticity rather
   than irreversible pathology.

   Affiliate of Center for Neural Science; Adjunct Professor of
   Psychiatry, NYU School of Medicine

   American College of Neuropsychopharmacology, Harvey Societym Scientists
   Institute for Public Information, Serotonin Club, Society for
   Neuroscience, The New York Academy of Medicine, The New York Academy of
   Science.

   Awarded the K05 Senior Scientist Career Award, April 2001.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Azmitia+EC%5BAuthor%5D
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=TJMHkwIAAAAJ&hl=en
file:///docs/IO/6563/recpt.jpg
