   Assistant Professor of Biology

   Ph.D. 2006 (Developmental Biology), New York University; Licenciado
   2000 (Cellular Biology and Physiology), University of Buenos Aires

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 992-9564

   (212) 995-4015

   http://www.mazzonilab.org

   Stem cell biology, cell fate differentiation, developmental
   neuroscience

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   RESEARCH

   Embryonic stem cell (ESC) differentiation has the potential to be
   instrumental in cell based therapies and in vitro disease modeling and
   chemical screens. To fulfill those expectations, ESCs have to be
   directed at high efficiency to disease relevant cell types, either by
   the application of extracellular signals or direct programming by
   forced expression of transcription factors. Therefore, our long term
   goal is to understand how extracellular signals and transcription
   factors control cell fate and apply that knowledge to differentiate ESC
   into disease relevant neuronal cell types.

   Mechanisms of direct neuronal programming Recent advances in cell
   programming demonstrated that terminal cell fate can be established by
   a handful of selector transcription factors. To understand cell
   differentiation and to gain control of cell fate during direct
   programming, it is necessary to rationalize how selector factors
   recognize their genomic targets and control gene expression. The
   plastic genetic state of ESC is particularly receptive to the
   programming activity of transcription factors. Therefore, the
   expression of few factors programs ESC into neurons at high efficiency
   allowing us to apply biochemical interrogation techniques to study gene
   expression, physiological properties, chromatin status and genomic
   occupancy of transcription factors. Preliminary data suggests that
   programming transcription factors synergize to activate cell-specific
   transcriptional programs. Thus, instead of âselector genes,â âselector
   cassettesâ are the functional units controlling cell fate. We hope to
   derive rules that allow the rational design of programming selector
   cassettes.

   Hox gene function during motor neuron differentiation The central
   nervous system is composed by a myriad of neuronal types and subtypes
   that are essential for proper connectivity and function. However, the
   subtype identity is rarely controlled during ESC directed
   differentiation or cellular programming. Therefore, successful in vitro
   differentiation protocols to be applied either for cell based therapies
   or disease modeling should produce neurons with defined generic and
   subtype identity. During in vivo and in vitro differentiation, members
   of the Hox family of transcription factors impose subtype identity and
   control motor neuron (MN) connectivity. Thus, understanding how Hox
   genes interact and synergize with MN resident factors to control
   subtype identity is the key to manipulating MN identity. Based on
   phenotypic characterization, expression analysis and ChIP-seq of Hox
   genes during in vitro MN differentiation, we plan to identify the
   enhancer structure at Hox binding sites and to establish the minimal
   set of cofactors and molecular logic required for Hox gene activity in
   MNs. The final measure of our understanding of Hox gene activity will
   be the direct generation of precise MN subtypes at will.

   Generation of cells relevant for human neurodegenerative diseases In
   vitro differentiation of human ESC has the potential to serve as a
   âhumanizedâ platform to study complex neurodegenerative diseases.
   Current protocols based on human stem cells are inefficient and/or take
   several weeks and are thus inappropriate for large-scale phenotypic
   characterization and drug screens. We take advantage of sets of
   transcription factors that program mouse ESC to two types of human
   neurons with different sensitivities to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
   (ALS). These cells would become an in vitro human model to investigate
   intrinsic resistance to ALS. Comparing the transcriptomic and
   epigenomic landscapes of these two cell types under normal and stressed
   conditions might yield insight into new approaches to treat
   neurodegenerative diseases. In the future, both cell types can be the
   substrate for chemical screens to identify molecules that enhance MN
   survival.

   2007 Damon Runyon Cancer Research Fundation Post-doctoral Fellowship
   2004 Deanâs Dissertation Fellowship, NYU 2000 Dr Charlotte A. Pann
   Memorial Award, Dep Biol., NYU 2000 Mc Cracken Scholarship, NYU 1999
   Scholarship for undergraduate Science, School of Med., UBA, Argentina
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.mazzonilab.org/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Mazzoni%2C+Esteban%5BFull+Author+Name%5D
