   Professor of Biology; Provost, NYU Abu Dhabi; Founding Director, Center
   for Genomics and Systems Biology

   Ph.D. 1995 (Biology), New York University; M.A. 1991 (Biology), New
   York University; B.S. 1988 (Biology), New York University.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-3737

   (212) 995-4015

   Genomics, genetics and evolution of early C. elegans development.

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   We study the genetic and evolutionary mechanisms underlying early
   embryonic development using a combination of molecular genetic and
   functional genomics approaches in the animal model C. elegans and
   related nematodes. One of our major goals is to use RNA interference
   (RNAi) of ovary-expressed genes followed by time-lapse microscopy to
   work toward a comprehensive molecular description of early
   embryogenesis in C. elegans. RNAi offers a powerful way to obtain
   information about the loss-of-function phenotype of the genes tested,
   while the early embryo offers a system in which basic cellular and
   developmental processes can be easily studied. We currently have tested
   over 1,000 genes and identified about 300 genes required for
   embryogenesis. Although most of these genes are highly conserved, fewer
   than 10% have been identified in previous genetic screens. We use the
   data obtained from the RNAi tests to build gene clusters based on
   phenotypic analysis. The clusters are then used to guide two broad
   lines of investigation: (1) functional analysis of the genome, and (2)
   molecular dissection of specific cellular processes.

   From the initial clustering studies, we have found groups of genes
   required for basic processes such as nuclear movements, mitotic spindle
   formation, cytokinesis, cell cycle progression, and proper asymmetric
   cell division. In many cases, these clusters contain genes that are
   conserved in humans. However, their function in humans is not yet
   known. Therefore, our data can be used not only to analyze the C.
   elegans genome but also to guide the functional examination of the
   human genome. In our current dataset we have already found genes for
   which the human homolog is associated with a genetic disease, including
   some that have been previously targeted for anti-cancer drug
   development.

   In a related project we are using the early nematode embryo as a model
   to study the evolution of developmental mechanisms. Comparisons across
   species have revealed fundamental differences during early
   embryogenesis. Significantly, in some species the wild-type patterns of
   early cleavages resemble those produced by various C. elegans mutants.
   We are examining these phenotypic differences in conjunction with
   molecular analyses to identify mechanisms underlying the phenotypic
   diversity seen in nature.

   Post-doctoral fellowship from the Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell
   Foundation for Cancer Research; the Gladys Mateyko Award for Excellence
   in Biology; the James Arthur Fellowship.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Piano%2C+Fabio[Full+Author+Name]
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=LgF3Ds0AAAAJ&hl=en
