   Carroll and Milton Petrie Professor; Professor of Biology

   Ph.D./M.S. 1979 (Molecular and Cell Biology), New York University; B.S.
   1976 (Biology), Fordham.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-3963

   (212) 995-4015

   http://coruzzilab.bio.nyu.edu/

   Plant Systems Biology and Evolutionary Genomics

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   Research

   Plant Systems Biology.  Our goal is to identify gene regulatory
   networks in plants using a combination of genetic, genomic,
   bioinformatic, and systems biological approaches. Our lab has two main
   areas of inquiry:  1. A systems approach to nitrogen networks & the
   Virtual Plant; 2. Comparative Genomics of Seed Evolution.

   A Systems Approach to Nitrogen Networks & the VirtualPlant.
   The long term goal of this project is to understand how internal and
   external perturbations affect gene regulatory networks that link plant
   metabolism and development. Succeeding in this endeavor will allow us
   to (1) explain mechanistically how changes in gene networks evoke
   systems-wide responses to external treatments such as nitrogen, and (2)
   to predict network states under untested conditions or in response to
   modifications. In the long term, this systems biology approach to gene
   networks should enable researchers to test the effects of
   biotechnological strategies for gene modifications in silico, prior to
   implementation in transgenic plants.  Our approach starts with the
   integration of all available information on Arabidopsis genomic data
   into a "multinetwork" where the "edges" connecting gene "nodes" are
   supported by multiple evidence including: metabolic pathway
   connections, protein:protein and protein:DNA interactions, microarray
   data, microRNA:target datasets, and literature-based interactions.  At
   present, the Arabidopsis multinetwork we have created  contains
   approximately 7,000 gene nodes and 230,000 interactions between them.
   As proof-of-principle, we have used this Arabidopsis multinetwork to
   identify the gene networks controlled by light, carbon and nitrogen
   signals.   In selected cases, the networks identified in wild-type
   plants have been validated using microarray data from Arabidopsis
   signaling mutants.  Our studies include analysis of gene networks in
   specific organs (leaves, roots or seeds) or in specific cell-types
   based on analysis of microarray data obtained from cell-sorted samples
   of roots.  The network analysis of gene lists generated from the
   microarray data in a network view is shown in Figure 1.

                                  fig1.gif
             FIGURE 1:  Nitrogen Networks and the VirtualPlant.

   The VirtualPlant Project.  In order to go beyond data integration to
   conceptual integration of genomic data, we recognize that scientists
   pattern recognition skills often lead to the most enduring qualitative
   biological insights. To support those skills in a data-rich
   environment, have implemented a set of data integration, analysis and
   visualization tools into a system called the "VirtualPlant"
   (www.virtualplant.org).   This system encompasses visualization
   techniques that render the multivariate genomic information in visual
   formats that facilitate the extraction of biological concepts and
   enable a "Systems Biology" view of the genomic data.  While our project
   relates specifically to Arabidopsis, the data structures, algorithms,
   and visualization tools we have developed have been designed in a
   species-independent fashion.  Thus, with the proper data uploads, the
   system can be used to visualize and model the molecular basis and
   underlying genomic responses in any organism for which genomic data is
   available.

   Comparative Genomics of Seed Evolution
   This NSF Plant Genome project (NSF DBI-0421604) involves the
   comparative genomic analysis of non-model, non-crop species, to uncover
   genes important to the evolution of seeds, an important agronomic
   trait. This project is being conducted with our partners in the NY
   Plant Genomic Consortium that include coPIs from NYU Biology (Coruzzi),
   NYU Courant (Shasha), NYBG (Stevenson), AMNH (DeSalle) and CSHL
   (McCombie & Martienssen).   Our approach is to generate and mine EST
   data from the the most primitive living-seed plants, the nodal
   Gymnosperms and the heterosporous lycophyte, Selaginella (as an
   outgroup), to resolve their phylogenetic relationship and to uncover
   novel genes and characters associated with the evolution and
   development of seeds. This project is being conducted collaboratively
   by scientists at three NY area institutions specializing in evolution,
   genomics and bioinformatics, who comprise The New York Plant Genomics
   Consortium (www.nypgenomics.org).  Participants in this project include
   PIs who collaborate in the training of post docs and graduate students
   from New York University, The New York Botanical Garden, Cold Spring
   Harbor, and The American Museum of Natural History.  We aim to achieve
   three goals:

                                  fig2.gif
     FIGURE 2.  Comparative Genomics of Seed Evolution:  Use of ESTs in
    functional phylogenomic studies to identify genes associated with the
                             evolution of seeds

   FUNDING:
   NIH NIGMS GRANT GM32877: "Regulation of amino acid biosynthesis genes
   in plants"
   P.I.:  Gloria Coruzzi

   NSF Arabidopsis 2010 Genome Grant (IBN0115586):"N2010: Nitrogen
   Networks in Plants" P.I. Gloria Coruzzi, Co-PIs; D. Shasha (NYU
   Courant), N.Crawford (UCSD), Ken Birnbaum (NYU Center for Comparative
   Functional Genomics).

   NSF Plant Genome Grant: DBI-0421604. "Genomics of Comparative Seed
   Evolution" P.I.: Gloria Coruzzi;  Co-PIs: Stevenson (NYBG), McCombie
   (CSHL), DeSalle (AMNH).

   NSF Database Activities: DBI-0445666, "Conceptual Data Integration for
   the Virtual Plant".  Coruzzi , PI, CoPIs: Gutierrez R (U Catolica de
   Chile), Shasha D (NYU Courant).

   DOE GRANT DEFG02-89ER14034: "Asparagine synthetase gene regulation and
   plant nitrogen metabolism" P.I. Coruzzi

   Biosketch

   Gloria Coruzzi is currently the Carroll & Milton Petrie Professor of
   Biology at New York University. Her research in Plant Systems Biology
   combines genomic, bioinformatic and system biology approaches to
   identify gene networks involved in biological regulatory mechanisms
   controlling nitrogen use and the evolution of seeds. A native New
   Yorker, Dr. Coruzzi received her Ph.D. in Molecular & Cell Biology at
   New York University School of Medicine in yeast genetics where she
   decoded the yeast mitochondrial genome. Her studies on plant genes
   began during her studies as an Assistant and Associate Professor at
   Rockefeller University. Since joining NYU a professor, Dr. Coruzzi's
   lab initiated Plant Systems Biology approaches to perform functional
   genomic studies in Arabidopsis and other species. This work including
   the development of new informatic tools encompassed in a software
   platform called VirtualPlant which is being performed in collaboration
   with colleagues at NYU Courant Institute for Math & Computer Science.
   Dr. Coruzzi is also engaged in a collaborative genomic project on the
   Comparative Genomics of Seed Evolution with co-PIs at the New York
   Botanical Garden, the American Museum of Natural History and Cold
   Spring Harbor labs. Dr. Coruzzi's research is currently funded by The
   National Institutes of Health, The NSF 2010 Project, The NSF Plant
   Genome Project, the NSF Database and Information Project, and The
   Department of Energy. Dr. Coruzzi was named an AAAS Fellow in 2005 and
   currently serves on numerous science advisory and editorial boards.

   Teaching Activities

   I have been involved in developing a specialized graduate training
   track that concerns the molecular evolution of plants and animals
   called BRIDGES: Biotic Resources: Integrating Development, Genetics,
   Evolution and Systematics which is currently run by Dr. David Fitch.
   The BRIDGES PhD track was developed jointly by NYU faculty and faculty
   the New York Botanical Garden (NYBG) and the American Museum of Natural
   History (AMNH). I teach in the following undergradiate and graduate
   courses: V23.0012 Principles of Biology II, V230014 Honors Principles
   of Biology II, V23.0022 Molecular and Cellular Biology; G23.1072
   Molecular Controls of Organism Form and Function, G23.1128 Genomics;
   G23.1002/2004 BioCore II & IV: Genes, Systems and Evolution.

   Laboratory Members
   See Coruzzi Laboratory Webpage for more information on people &
   projects.

   Editorial Board; Current Opinions in Plant Biology, 1998-present; Board
   of Directors, International Society of Plant Molecular Biology,
   1996-1999; New York Botanical Garden, Advisory Committee for Systematic
   Botany, 1995-present; Board Member, North American Arabidopsis Steering
   Committee, 1994-1997; Associate Editor, Plant Physiology, 1992-1998.

   AAAS Fellow, 2005; Carroll and Milton Petrie Chair in Biology, NYU
   1996- present; National Institutes of Health Grant, GM32877, 1996-2000;
   National Science Foundation Grant, MCB93-04913, 1996-1999; United
   States Department of Energy Grant, DEFG0292ER20071, 1995-1998; Herbert
   and Margaret Sokol Award in the Sciences, NYU Dec. 1996.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://coruzzilab.bio.nyu.edu/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Coruzzi+G%5BAuthor%5D+AND+(plant+OR+genome)
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=UVuQeJIAAAAJ&hl=en
http://www.virtualplant.org/
http://www.nypgenomics.org/
http://coruzzilab.bio.nyu.edu/home/
