   Associate Professor of Biology; Faculty Director of Bioinformatics

   Ph.D. 1997 (Genetics and Development), Cornell; B.A. 1984
   (Chemistry/Biology), Cornell.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8236

   (212) 995-4015

   Developmental systems biology.

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   Our laboratory is interested in the integrative analysis of diverse
   functional genomics data to identify groups of genes that work in
   specific cellular and developmental processes. A major challenge in
   systems biology is how to extract meaningful biological insights from
   large heterogeneous data sets that probe different aspects of gene
   function. Several ongoing projects in the lab use integrative
   approaches to analyze and interpret large-scale datasets and to
   generate testable hypotheses on gene function in different biological
   systems. These projects all involve close collaborative interaction
   between experimental and computational scientists.

   Molecular networks in C. elegans early embryogenesis
   We have used an integrative approach to characterize gene networks that
   function in the very early C. elegans embryo, based on data from
   different kinds of functional genomics data that we and others have
   collected, such as protein-protein interactions, gene expression
   profiles, and phenotypic maps (Fig. 1). We are currently extending this
   work in collaboration with the laboratory of Dr. Fabio Piano to
   systematically define genetic interactions in C. elegans early
   embryogenesis. Genetic interactions tell us about logical relationships
   between different cellular components, and we are analyzing how these
   functional dependencies complement other functional data that we
   already have in hand. The long-term goal of this work is to develop a
   global map of the molecular architecture underlying early development
   in C. elegans.

   [image002.jpg]
   Figure 1. C. elegans gene networks in early embryogenesis. (a) A
   composite view of around 30,000 functional linkages between 661 C.
   elegans genes with phenotypes in the early embryo, based on
   protein-protein interactions (Int), phenotypic similarity based on a
   signature of 45 early embryonic phenotypic characters (Ph), and gene
   co-expression in a compendium of gene expression data (Tr). (b) When
   the network is filtered for high-confidence functional links between
   genes (supported by two or more types of functional genomic data, e.g.
   phenotypic correlation and protein-protein interaction), a modular
   organization of molecular machinery is revealed, in which groups of
   highly interconnected genes are linked to each other via a small number
   of functional interactions. Adapted from Gunsalus et al., Nature 2005.

   Genetic requirements for mouse early embryogenesis
   We are collaborating with Dr. Nicole Noyes of the NYU School of
   Medicine to predict and analyze RNAi phenotypes in early mouse embryos
   using time-lapse microscopy. For this work, we are leveraging
   functional genomic data from several model organisms to identify
   candidate genes for RNAi that will help us define the spectrum of
   phenotypic defects that can occur in early mammalian embryos, similar
   to our previous work in C. elegans. One of the goals of this
   translational project is to develop a more sophisticated and
   non-invasive way to determine the developmental potential of human
   embryos for patients who seek reproductive assistance for infertility.

   Post-transcriptional gene regulation in C. elegans
   Regulation of mRNA localization, translation, and stability is
   increasingly recognized as in important layer in the regulation of gene
   activity in diverse biological systems. The modENCODE Consortium is an
   NIH/NHGRI initiative to identify and analyze functional elements in
   model organism genomes. As part of modENCODE, we are involved in the
   annotation of C. elegans 3‚UTRs and functional sequence elements
   contained in these regions. The goal of this work is to identify and
   test putative post-transcriptional regulatory networks in development.
   This project is a collaboration with Fabio Piano (PI), John Kim (U.
   Michigan, Co-PI), and Nikolaus Rajewsky (Center for Medical Systems
   Biology, Max Delbruck Center, Berlin, Co-PI).

   Interactive tools for functional genomic data
   As part of these projects, we develop web-based tools and graphical
   interfaces to provide the research community at large with enhanced
   access to and mining capabilities for large-scale functional genomic
   data. To facilitate a systems-level view of gene networks, we have
   developed a web-based network visualization tool called "N-Browse"
   (http://www.gnetbrowse.org) that allows researchers to browse gene
   neighborhoods and heterogeneous functional relationships in a modular
   way based on these integrated data. We have also developed a
   web-accessible database of RNA interference (RNAi) phenotypes in C.
   elegans, "RNAiDB" (http://www.rnai.org), which we use both to
   distribute data from large-scale RNAi studies and as an online notebook
   for ongoing high-content phenotypic analysis. In conjunction, we are
   developing strategies to make phenotypic data more amenable to
   computational analysis and tools to mine these data.


   National Academies Education Fellow in the Life Sciences, NSF ADVANCE
   Fellows Award, W.M. Keck Foundation Fellowship in Biology
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=(Gunsalus+K%5BAuthor%5D+OR+Gunsalus+KC%5BAuthor%5D)+NOT+Gunsalus+KT%5BAuthor%5D
http://www.gnetbrowse.org/
http://www.rnai.org/
