   Associate Professor of Biology; Director, Undergraduate Studies

   Ph.D. 1998 (Biology), Harvard; B.S. 1993 (Biology), Brown.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-7908

   (212) 995-4015

   http://www.nyu.edu/projects/siegal

   evolutionary systems biology; robustness and evolution of complex
   traits

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   Research

   The aim of our research is to understand phenotypic evolution by
   studying the processes by which the genetic networks underlying
   development diverge. A major feature of developmental networks is their
   robustness (Masel & Siegal 2009). That is, they are tolerant of both
   environmental and genetic perturbations. Our lab uses both experimental
   and computational approaches to understand the causes and evolutionary
   consequences of this robustness.

   One major experimental focus in our lab is on the process of sexual
   differentiation in Drosophila melanogaster and related flies. Sexual
   differentiation is a powerful model system for studying the evolution
   of development because many aspects of sexual morphology, physiology
   and behavior differ between closely related species, thereby enabling
   high-resolution comparative analysis. Despite this rapid divergence,
   sexual traits are highly robust within species and indeed are often
   diagnostic of species. We are using genomic and genetic approaches to
   identify and characterize regulatory pathways involved in genital
   development and function in D. melanogaster (e.g., Chatterjee et al.
   2011). This will lay the groundwork for determining how these robust
   pathways diverged between closely related species.

   A second major experimental focus is on directly identifying and
   characterizing genes that contribute to robustness of many traits. We
   have screened the genome of the laboratory yeast, Saccharomyces
   cerevisiae, for genes whose deletion increases the variation in the
   morphologies of individual, genetically identical cells. Yeast is
   advantageous for this work because of its wealth of genetic and genomic
   resources, and because it lends itself to high-throughput analyses.
   Hundreds of yeast genes increase morphological variation when deleted,
   and these genes tend to be highly connected in cellular networks (Levy
   & Siegal 2008). We are currently testing whether the same genes also
   buffer genetic differences between cells, and whether the variation
   that is revealed by impairment of these genes is potentially
   beneficial. This work is complemented by theoretical investigations
   into the evolution of complex gene networks (e.g., Bergman & Siegal
   2003; Siegal et al. 2007), as well as bioinformatic analyses of
   regulatory networks (e.g., Chen et al. 2010), which give us predictions
   to test experimentally.

   Funding
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.nyu.edu/projects/siegal
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=siegal%20ml
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=wtROIIAAAAAJ&hl=en
