   Associate Professor of Biology

   Ph.D. 2004 (Biology), Duke; B.S. 1997 (Organismal Biology, Geology and
   Geophysics), Yale.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8490

   (212) 995-4015

   https://files.nyu.edu/mr176/public/

   Evolutionary and molecular causes of heritable variation in animals

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   Our goal is to understand the relationship between the molecular
   mechanisms that shape phenotypes within individuals and the
   evolutionary mechanisms that generate and maintain phenotypic variation
   within populations. This project requires that we identify the
   functional allelic variants that segregate in nature, understand their
   molecular mechanisms, characterize their population genetic dynamics,
   and build models that explain these dynamics in terms of molecular
   biology and ecology.

   We use molecular and quantitative genetics to discover the alleles that
   underlie phenotypic variation. Our primary model system is C. elegans,
   a bacteria-eating nematode widely distributed across the globe. Natural
   isolates of this species harbor variation for development, morphology,
   behavior, and physiology (indeed, for almost any trait we can measure).
   A particular focus of our research is the genetic basis of gene
   expression variation; insofar as spatial and temporal regulation of
   gene activity underlies development, genetic analysis of gene
   expression variation provides a unique window into the substrate of
   developmental evolution. Moreover, by measuring thousands of gene
   expression traits simultaneously, we can leverage their correlation
   structure to infer the causal networks that constitute the
   genotype-phenotype map, potentially a major shaper of phenotypic
   divergence.

   Our genome-scale analyses form the basis for our studies of the
   evolutionary causes of heritable variation. We are studying in
   particular the roles of dominance, epistasis, and linkage. C. elegans
   is an especially powerful system for studying the effects of linked
   selection because of its relatively low rate of outcrossing. We hope to
   study global patterns of epistasis by characterizing the additive and
   epistatic effects of large numbers of loci underlying gene expression
   traits that are under stabilizing selection. Alternate models for the
   mechanism of stabilizing selection â compensatory evolution and
   fluctuating neutral space â will be directly testable.

   To incorporate ecological context into our understanding of heritable
   variation, we are planning extensive field work to characterize spatial
   and temporal dynamics of functional allele frequencies in C. elegans.
   In parallel, we are initiating work on a new model system, a widely
   distributed polychaete species with abundant heritable variation for
   developmental phenotypes. We can collect the polychaetes from sites
   across the exceptional marine and estuarine setting of the New York
   area and we are developing molecular tools to discover the loci
   underlying developmental variation and their distributions in nature.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
https://files.nyu.edu/mr176/public/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Rockman+MV%5BAuthor%5D
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=wpadxmYAAAAJ&hl=en
