   Professor of Biology

   Ph.D. 1978 (geological sciences), Columbia; B.A. 1968 (geology), Hunter
   College.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-3743

   (212) 995-4015

   Earth history, evolution, causes of mass extinctions, volcanology

   List of Publications from Pubmed

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   My research spans many areas of the earth sciences, especially the
   inter-relationships between the Earth's changing environments and the
   evolution of life. A major long-term project involves the causes of
   mass extinctions, including the end-Cretaceous extinction 65 million
   years ago when the dinosaurs and many other forms of life died out. The
   evidence for a large asteroid or comet impact at that time led to work
   on a general theory of large-body impacts and mass extinctions,
   research into impact cratering and its environmental effects and into
   the possible astronomical causes for periodic comet showers in Earth's
   history. This work has taken me to impact craters and geologic
   boundaries on six continents. Recently, I have been focusing on the
   causes of the Permian/Triassic mass extinction (250 million years ago)
   - the most severe mass extinction of life - with field studies in
   Europe, Japan and South Africa.

   Another line of ongoing research has been an investigation of the role
   of volcanic eruptions in climatic change. This has involved study of
   volcanoes in Indonesia, and elsewhere around the globe. Of special
   interest are the largest explosive events that can produce severe
   'volcanic winter' episodes of cooling. These eruptions may have caused
   near-extinction in human evolutionary history and their reoccurrence
   can threaten civilization.

   Recent projects include computer modeling of biogeochemical cycles
   (carried out with Ken Caldeira at Lawrence - Livermore National
   Laboratory), and studies of global climate on time scales from decades
   (global warming) to hundreds of million of years (Snowball Earth)
   carried out with colleagues at NASA, Goddard Institute for Space
   Studies in NYC. I am also involved with observational studies of
   asteroids in collaboration with astronomers at Mt. Wilson Observatory
   in California.

   Dr. Rampino is currently Associate Professor of Biology with the Earth
   and Environmental Science Program at New York University. He received
   his Ph.D. in Geological Sciences from Columbia University in New York
   City in 1978. He has been with NYU since 1985 and is also a Research
   Consultant at NASA, Goddard Institute for Space Studies. From 1980 to
   1985 he was an Associate Research Scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth
   Observatory of Columbia University based at the Goddard Institute, and
   from 1978 to 1980 he held a post-doctoral research position at Goddard
   under Dr. Robert Jastrow.

   Environmental Studies

   Consultant, NASA, Goddard Institute for Space Studies, New York;
   Editorial Board, Journal of Coastal Research; Chair (1989-1990) of the
   Geological Sciences Section at the New York Academy of Sciences;
   representative of the International Climate Commission, International
   Geosphere-Biosphere Project, and NOAA, Joint US-USSR Working 8 on the
   Environment; member of American Geophysical Union, AAAS, Geological
   Society of America, New York Academy of Sciences, National Association
   of Geology Teachers, International Association of Volcanology, Society
   for Sedimentary Geology, International Society for the Study of the
   Origin of Life

   American Philosophical Society Research Award, 1988; listed in American
   Men and Women of Science, Who's Who in Science and Technology, and
   Who's Who in the World
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Rampino+MR%5BAuthor%5D+OR+Rampino+MR%5BInvestigator%5D
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=FyhRqdYAAAAJ&hl=en
http://environment.as.nyu.edu/
