   Professor of Biology; Chair, Department of Biology

   Ph.D. 1988 (developmental biology), Cincinnati; B.A. 1973, Thomas More
   College.

   ' + str2 + '');

   (212) 998-8244

   (212) 995-4015

   Spatial control of gene transcription during early Drosophila
   development

   List of citations from Google Scholar

   Research Interests:

   In many cases, different parts of each geneâs transcription pattern are
   controlled by cis-acting regulatory elements (enhancers) that contain
   binding sites for factors positioned higher in the hierarchy. By
   understanding how these elements work, we hope to understand the
   molecular mechanisms involved in position-specific activation and
   repression of transcription. Since many of the transcription factors we
   study in fruit flies are evolutionarily similar to factors in higher
   eukaryotes, understanding how they work in Drosophila should provide us
   with profound insights into developmental mechanisms in other insects
   and higher animals including humans.

   Current Projects:

   In our first experiments, we have used genetic experiments to flatten
   the Bcd gradient, and then measured the amounts of Bcd required for
   activating specific target genes. Surprisingly, we have found that all
   tested target genes can be activated by lower concentrations than those
   present in the wild type gradient where boundaries for those genes are
   formed. These results suggest that Bcd concentrations are in excess at
   each position within the wild type gradient, which challenges the
   strict interpretation of the morphogen hypothesis. Our working
   hypothesis is that there are repressors that interfere with
   Bcd-dependent activation, and that combinations of activating and
   repressing proteins position and register multiple target gene
   expression boundaries.

   We are using an integrated approach in pursuit of this goal. First, we
   use bio-informatics methods and published ChIP-Chip data to identify
   all clusters of Bicoid-binding sites that are similar to those in the
   known target genes. Candidate clusters are cloned into reporter genes,
   transformed into the genome, and tested for in vivo activity by in situ
   hybridization experiments.

   While collecting an ever-growing number of Bcd-dependent elements, we
   are using data mining techniques to identify sequence motifs or binding
   site arrangements that correlate with target gene positioning. Among
   the most over-represented sites in a specific group of enhancers
   appears to be a binding site for the Run transcription factor, which is
   expressed in a gradient that spatially opposes the Bcd gradient. We are
   currently testing this hypothesis using genetic, biochemical, and
   transgenic assays.

   Defining Functions of Individual Bicoid Target Genes. How individual
   Bicoid target genes function in anterior patterning has been impossible
   to address because removal of Bicoid function abolishes the expression
   of all target genes. However, in recent years, we have developed a
   transgenic system for expressing an anterior gradient of any protein in
   embryos lacking Bicoid altogether. This approach is being used to
   systematically assay the activities of the known target genes. Our
   results suggest that some genes are involved primarily in repressing
   posterior organizing genes in the presumptive head regions, while
   others are involved in transducing the specific instructive activities
   that lead to the formation of individual anterior segments. These
   studies are particular interesting in light of the fact that the bicoid
   gene is not well conserved, even among insects.

   We are currently focused on a 500 bp enhancer element that forms two
   stripes (eve 3 and eve 7) in the early embryo (Figure 4). So far we
   have identified more than 25 binding sites in this enhancer. By
   manipulating these sequences and the spacing between them in detail, we
   hope to further augment our understanding of how these DNA sequences
   integrate the combined effects of different combinations of regulatory
   factors.

   These projects are currently funded by grants from the NIH and NYUâs
   Research Challenge Fund.

   Biosketch:

   Stephen Small received his PhD in developmental biology in 1988 from
   the University of Cincinnati. For his thesis research, he worked with
   Dr. Richard Akeson on the structure and function of different NCAM
   polypeptides in rat development. NCAMs are cell adhesion molecules that
   are critical for establishing connectivity in the developing nervous
   system. From 1989-1993, he worked as a post-doctoral fellow at Columbia
   University and at UC San Diego with Dr. Michael Levine on the
   patterning mechanisms that establish the body plan in Drosophila. He
   joined NYU's Biology Department in 1993 as an assistant professor, and
   continues to study how genes control the establishment of different
   body forms.

   Educational Activities:

   Dr. Small is the current Chair of NYUâs Department of Biology. He has
   also served as Director of Graduate Studies, and is involved in
   teaching both undergraduate and graduate students. At the undergraduate
   level, he teaches an upper level majors course in Developmental
   Biology, and a course in Human Genetics for non-majors. He has also
   participated in teaching in the departmentâs core courses, such as
   Principles of Biology and Molecular and Cell Biology. At the graduate
   level, he teaches several lectures in the Biocore series, and in
   Foundations of Developmental Genetics I and II, the core course for the
   Developmental Genetics program with NYUâs School of Medicine.

   Selected References:

   Genetics Society of America, American Association for Advancement of
   Science.

   New York University Golden Dozen Teaching Award, 2009; National
   Institutes of Health Research Grants, 1996-2011; National Science
   Foundation Research Grants, 1995-2011; National Institutes of Health
   Postdoctoral Fellowship, 1991-1993.
mailto:'%20+%20str2%20+%20'
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=hmy9MpkAAAAJ&hl=en
