   Assistant Professor of Biology

   Affiliation: NYU Abu Dhabi

   e: youssef.idaghdour@nyu.edu

   B.Sc. in Biology from Ibn Zohr in Agadir;
   M.Sc., University of Leicester;
   Ph.D., North Carolina State University

   Fulbright Scholar, Banting Fellow

   The overarching goal of Youssef Idaghdourâs group is to understand how
   genomes and environment interact at various levels of biological
   variation, moving from the architecture of the genome itself to protein
   function and transitioning through the complex modes of epigenetic and
   gene expression regulation.

   Youssef Idaghdour is particularly interested in studying the role
   genetic and environmental factors play in shaping health-related
   phenotypes and how interactions between these effects trigger disease
   and modulate its outcome. He does most of his experimental research on
   mammalian systems and he focuses on metabolic traits and immune
   response to cancer and infection. To achieve these goals, his lab
   generates high-dimensional genomic datasets from single-cells, tissues
   and cells, and use bioinformatics and statistical genetic approaches to
   analyze the data.

   Youssef is also interested in the area of ecological genomics and he's
   actively involved in developing genetic tools to facilitate population
   genetic analysis of endangered marine and wildlife species including
   Houbara bustards and falcons.

   Youssef grew up in southern Morocco where he later graduated with BSc
   in Biology and spent several years working on endangered avian species.
   After completing his M.Sc. training in Molecular Genetics at the
   University of Leicester in the UK and Ph.D. training in Genetics at
   North Carolina State University under a Fulbright Scholarship, he
   received a Banting Postdoctoral Fellowship and became part of a large
   program in medical and population genomics at Sainte-Justine Research
   Center in Montreal prior to joining New York University Abu Dhabi.

   The overarching goal of our group is to understand how genomes and
   environment interact at various levels of biological variation, moving
   from the architecture of the genome itself to protein function and
   transitioning through the complex modes of epigenetic and gene
   expression regulation.

   *equal contribution

   Quicklinks

   Send us your feedback

   Unless otherwise noted, all content copyright New York University Abu
   Dhabi. All rights reserved.
mailto:youssef.idaghdour@nyu.edu
file:///en/feedback.html
